Driving without holding an effective driving license.
Driving by an under-aged person (Minor driving vehicle).
Owner or person in-charge of a vehicle permitting an unlicensed person or an under-aged person to drive it.
Holder of a driving license permitting it to be used by other person.
(i) Disqualified person driving a vehicle or (ii) applying for or obtaining a driving license or (iii) seeking a license without disclosing endorsements made on driving license previously held
(i) Disqualified conductor acting as conductor or (ii) applying for or obtaining a conductor's license or (iii) seeking a license without disclosing endorsements made on license previously held
Running driving school without a license
Driving a vehicle at an excessive speed
Any person permitting his employee or a person subject to his control to drive a vehicle at an excessive speed
Driving permitting to drive a vehicle carrying excess load
Driving refusing to stop and submit his vehicle to weighing or removing the load prior to weighing
Any person driving or permitting to drive any vehicle with a left-hand steering control unless equipped with a device of a prescribed nature.
Driving dangerously / its abetment
Driving by a drunken person or by a person under influence of drugs/its abetment
Driving when mentally or physically unfit to drive/its abetment
Driving an uninsured vehicle.
Driver's failure to obey traffic signs (Red light jumping, violation of yellow line, changing lane without indication,etc.)
Driver's failure to make prescribed signals on prescribed occasions
Violation of restriction of time on HTVs on specified roads/areas
Driver allowing any person to obstruct his control of the vehicle (Sitting at a place so as to hamper driving etc.)
Driver of a two-wheeler/motor cycle carrying more then one person in addition to himself(Triple riding)
Driver and pillion rider failing to wear protective head gear(Helmet)
Any person in-charge or a vehicle or a trailer abandoning or permitting to abandon, etc. in a public place (Improper and obstructive parking)
Any person in-charge of a vehicle carrying or permitting to carry any person on the running board etc.
Any person in charge of a vehicle keeping or permitting to keep a vehicle stationery without the required precautions
Failure to take precautions at unguarded Railway level crossings
Failure of driver to stop in certain cases
Using mobile phone while driving a vehicle
Carrying persons in excess of seating capacity in goods carriage
Demanding excess fare by Autorickshaw / Taxi
Driving motor vehicle without number plates (Not displaying number plate)
Carrying of explosive and highly inflammable substance in transport vehicle.
Any person travelling on the running board or on the top or on the bonnet of a motor vehicle.
Any person keeping a disabled vehicle in any public place so as to cause impediment to the free flow of traffic.
Failure to intimate changes of residence or place of business by owner of a vehicle within time prescribed.
Failure to report to Registering Authority fact of transfer of vehicle within time prescribed.
Unauthorised alteration in vehicle (including those facilitating its operation by a different type of fuel)
